docs/docs/walkthrough/phase-4/pebble-ifttt-integration.md, before:

#Pebble / IFTTT Integration

Want to be able to set or cancel temp targets from your Pebble watch easily?  You need an IFTTT.com and Maker account and a Pebble watch connected to a phone with Internet access to make it work.  Check it the YouTube Video below:

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ck23JTa2Wk&feature=youtu.be" target="_blank"><img src="../../Images/PebbleTempTargets.png" alt="Pebble and OpenAps" width="400" height="400" border="10" title="Click on the hairy arm to watch how it works!" /></a>


Cool and handy, right?  I saw my daughter was double arrows down yesterday while I was in the shower and I was able to issue an activity mode temp target (140 for one hour) to help pull her out of a nose dive.

##Prerequisites
* Get an IFTTT.com accout
* Make sure you have a [Maker account](https://ifttt.com/maker)
* Find out what your NS hashed secret key is
  Run the command to find out: `nightscout hash-api-secret <your_secret_key>`
* Get the app ThisButton for your Pebble

##Putting it all together
1. Create a new recipe on IFTTT.com that starts and ends with Maker requests
  * Event Name: eating_soon (Maker requests must be lowercase and use underscores and not spaces)
  * Action:  https://your_url_hereish.azurewebsites.net/api/v1/treatments.json
  * Method: Post
  * Content Type: application/json
  * Body: 
````
  {"enteredBy": "ThisButton-Maker", "eventType": "Temporary Target", "reason": "Eating Soon", "targetTop": 80, "targetBottom": 80, "duration": 60, "secret": "a_totally_hashed_password_goes_here!!!"}
 ````
![Maker Request](../../Images/maker_request.png)

2. Understanding the JSON in the Body:
  * enteredBy: Will show up on the NS website this way - enter what you want
  * eventType: defines what we are doing - leave as is
  * reason: will show up on the NS website - enter what you want
  * targets: specify the range you want - enter what you want
  * duration: you can make them as long or as short as you want - enter what you want
  * secret: your hashed API secret key

3. Create more!
  * activity_mode would be 140 for an hour...or whatever you want.  You definitely want to create a cancel_temp_target as well.  It would look like this: 
````
{"enteredBy": "Alexa-Maker", "eventType": "Temporary Target", "duration": 0, "secret": "a_totally_hashed_password_goes_here!!!"}
````

4. Hook it up with ThisButton
  * You need to enter / get your Maker API key in the Settings for ThisButton on your phone
  * Under Events, there are two fields
     * Name: what shows up on your watch
     * Event: the name of the Maker event to fire.  It will have underscores in it like: eating_soon . 
 * Enter all the different events you created here and Submit them.
 * Fire up the ThisButton app on your Pebble and try setting a new temp target.

5. Since you have IFTTT / Maker requests working, you can get it to work with anything that supports IFTTT, including Alexa.
  ![Maker Request](../../Images/alexa_maker.png)
  * Alexa requests do not need underscores, FYI.

#Big thanks
To Jason Calabrese for coming up with this method and sharing it!

Commit message:

Adding @audiefile notes for Pebble shortcuts

docs/docs/walkthrough/phase-4/pebble-ifttt-integration.md, after:

#Pebble / IFTTT Integration

Want to be able to set or cancel temp targets from your Pebble watch easily?  You need an IFTTT.com and Maker account and a Pebble watch connected to a phone with Internet access to make it work.  Check it the YouTube Video below:

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ck23JTa2Wk&feature=youtu.be" target="_blank"><img src="../../Images/PebbleTempTargets.png" alt="Pebble and OpenAps" width="400" height="400" border="10" title="Click on the hairy arm to watch how it works!" /></a>


Cool and handy, right?  I saw my daughter was double arrows down yesterday while I was in the shower and I was able to issue an activity mode temp target (140 for one hour) to help pull her out of a nose dive.

##Prerequisites
* Get an IFTTT.com accout
* Make sure you have a [Maker account](https://ifttt.com/maker)
* Find out what your NS hashed secret key is
  Run the command to find out: `nightscout hash-api-secret <your_secret_key>`
* Get the app ThisButton for your Pebble

##Putting it all together
1. Create a new recipe on IFTTT.com that starts and ends with Maker requests
  * Event Name: eating_soon (Maker requests must be lowercase and use underscores and not spaces)
  * Action:  https://your_url_hereish.azurewebsites.net/api/v1/treatments.json
  * Method: Post
  * Content Type: application/json
  * Body: 
````
  {"enteredBy": "ThisButton-Maker", "eventType": "Temporary Target", "reason": "Eating Soon", "targetTop": 80, "targetBottom": 80, "duration": 60, "secret": "a_totally_hashed_password_goes_here!!!"}
 ````
![Maker Request](../../Images/maker_request.png)

2. Understanding the JSON in the Body:
  * enteredBy: Will show up on the NS website this way - enter what you want
  * eventType: defines what we are doing - leave as is
  * reason: will show up on the NS website - enter what you want
  * targets: specify the range you want - enter what you want
  * duration: you can make them as long or as short as you want - enter what you want
  * secret: your hashed API secret key

3. Create more!
  * activity_mode would be 140 for an hour...or whatever you want.  You definitely want to create a cancel_temp_target as well.  It would look like this: 
````
{"enteredBy": "Alexa-Maker", "eventType": "Temporary Target", "duration": 0, "secret": "a_totally_hashed_password_goes_here!!!"}
````

4. Hook it up with ThisButton
  * You need to enter / get your Maker API key in the Settings for ThisButton on your phone
  * Under Events, there are two fields
     * Name: what shows up on your watch
     * Event: the name of the Maker event to fire.  It will have underscores in it like: eating_soon . 
 * Enter all the different events you created here and Submit them.
 * Fire up the ThisButton app on your Pebble and try setting a new temp target.

5. Since you have IFTTT / Maker requests working, you can get it to work with anything that supports IFTTT, including Alexa.
  ![Maker Request](../../Images/alexa_maker.png)
  * Alexa requests do not need underscores, FYI.
  
Note: You should check to see if you have the recipe set up correctly. You can test on the Maker Channel by looking under How To Trigger Events. If correctly setup, you should see a new temp target event on your Nightscout site after IFTTT says it successfully triggered.

You can also add the DoButton app as a short cut on your Pebble. If you don’t have shortcuts already, press and hold either the up or down button and follow the prompts. If you have both shortcuts programmed and want to change one, go to menu > settings> quick launch and follow prompts.   

#Big thanks
To Jason Calabrese for coming up with this method and sharing it!
