docs/docs/walkthrough/phase-0/hardware/edison.md, before:

# Hardware information for Intel Edison-based setups

## Edison 

[Intel Edison Compute Module](http://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/do-it-yourself/edison.html) - Get it from [Amazon](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00PTVSVI8?dpID=51yqQB46DIL&dpSrc=sims&preST=_SL500_SR135%2C135_&refRID=6AE996400627CC0KPY52&ref_=pd_rhf_se_s_cp_2), Adafruit, Sparkfun or your nearest provider.

## Lipo Battery 

The example setup uses a [2000mah LIPO battery](http://www.robotshop.com/en/37v-2000mah-5c-lipo-battery.html). This battery lasts in the region of 20 hours. It's best to buy from a reputable supplier, since they are prone to catching fire. Make sure that it *includes a protection circuit* to protect over-discharge. **NEVER** connect the battery to the Edison base board the wrong way round. Ideally you want a battery that has a 10k ohm thermistor for temperature protection by the Edison too.

## Explorer Board or another base board 

You can use just about any base board, including the Intel base board or the Sparkfun base board, both of which are commonly sold with the Edison as a kit. Or, purchase the [Explorer Board](https://enhanced-radio-devices.myshopify.com/products/900mhz-explorer-block-pre-order), which was co-designed by this community. It will begin shipping in November 2016 and is going to be the main board supported by the docs moving forward. It also has the benefits of a built-in radio stick.

## Radio stick

You can use a number of radio sticks. Again, we recommend the Explorer Board with a built-in TI stick. Otherwise, you can use a [TI-USB-Sticks](http://www.ti.com/tool/cc1111emk868-915), running [subg_rfspy](https://github.com/ps2/subg_rfspy); [Wireless Things ERF](https://www.wirelessthings.net/erf-0-1-pin-spaced-radio-module); [Wireless Things Slice of Radio](https://www.wirelessthings.net/slice-of-radio-wireless-rf-transciever-for-the-raspberry-pi) a Slice of Radio; or a Rileylink. For details about setup with these other stick and board options, [the best instructions will be found in the mmeowlink wiki](https://github.com/oskarpearson/mmeowlink/wiki) for setting up your board and stick. Note you may also need a CC debugger for these. Then, come back to Phase 1 of the docs once you complete that.

## USB Cables

You will need two micro USB cables - with a micro connector on one end and a standard (Type A) connector on the other. Most cables will work fine, but some prefer to select lengths. You may already have one for charging a Dexcom receiver, or an Android phone, lying around at home. If you don't, here's an example of one that will work: [Monoprice Premium USB to Micro USB Charge, Sync Cable - 3ft](http://www.monoprice.com/Product?c_id=103&cp_id=10303&cs_id=1030307&p_id=9763&seq=1&format=2).




Once you've gotten your equipment, you'll want to head to the "[Setting Up Your Intel Edison](https://github.com/openaps/docs/blob/dev/docs/docs/walkthrough/phase-0/setup-edison.md)" page.

Commit message:

Adding @aaybob notes about power sources
Per https://github.com/openaps/docs/pull/475 about power source edits

docs/docs/walkthrough/phase-0/hardware/edison.md, after:

# Hardware information for Intel Edison-based setups

## Edison 

[Intel Edison Compute Module](http://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/do-it-yourself/edison.html) - Get it from [Amazon](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00PTVSVI8?dpID=51yqQB46DIL&dpSrc=sims&preST=_SL500_SR135%2C135_&refRID=6AE996400627CC0KPY52&ref_=pd_rhf_se_s_cp_2), Adafruit, Sparkfun or your nearest provider.

## Lipo Battery and/or other battery supply

Use a LiPo battery because the Explorer Board has battery charger circuitry on board for these batteries. The example setup uses a [2000mah LIPO battery](http://www.robotshop.com/en/37v-2000mah-5c-lipo-battery.html). This battery lasts in the region of ~16+ hours. The connector on this battery is a 2mm 2 pin JST to match the Explorer Board power plug. It's best to buy from a reputable supplier, since they are prone to catching fire. **NEVER** connect the battery to the Edison base board the wrong way round. Ideally you want a battery that has a 10k ohm thermistor for temperature protection by the Edison too.

You can also use any other charger with a USB plug, including a wall power charger. The Explorer Board has pass through charging, so this is also how you will charge the LiPo battery.

## Explorer Board or another base board 

You can use just about any base board, including the Intel base board or the Sparkfun base board, both of which are commonly sold with the Edison as a kit. Or, purchase the [Explorer Board](https://enhanced-radio-devices.myshopify.com/products/900mhz-explorer-block-pre-order), which was co-designed by this community. It will begin shipping in November 2016 and is going to be the main board supported by the docs moving forward. It also has the benefits of a built-in radio stick.

## Radio stick

You can use a number of radio sticks. Again, we recommend the Explorer Board with a built-in TI stick. Otherwise, you can use a [TI-USB-Sticks](http://www.ti.com/tool/cc1111emk868-915), running [subg_rfspy](https://github.com/ps2/subg_rfspy); [Wireless Things ERF](https://www.wirelessthings.net/erf-0-1-pin-spaced-radio-module); [Wireless Things Slice of Radio](https://www.wirelessthings.net/slice-of-radio-wireless-rf-transciever-for-the-raspberry-pi) a Slice of Radio; or a Rileylink. For details about setup with these other stick and board options, [the best instructions will be found in the mmeowlink wiki](https://github.com/oskarpearson/mmeowlink/wiki) for setting up your board and stick. Note you may also need a CC debugger for these. Then, come back to Phase 1 of the docs once you complete that.

## USB Cables

You will need two micro USB cables - with a micro connector on one end and a standard (Type A) connector on the other. Most cables will work fine, but some prefer to select lengths. You may already have one for charging a Dexcom receiver, or an Android phone, lying around at home. If you don't, here's an example of one that will work: [Monoprice Premium USB to Micro USB Charge, Sync Cable - 3ft](http://www.monoprice.com/Product?c_id=103&cp_id=10303&cs_id=1030307&p_id=9763&seq=1&format=2).




Once you've gotten your equipment, you'll want to head to the "[Setting Up Your Intel Edison](https://github.com/openaps/docs/blob/dev/docs/docs/walkthrough/phase-0/setup-edison.md)" page.
