docs/docs/walkthrough/phase-0/baseline-data.md, before:

# Baseline data

There is no requirement to share your data to use the openaps toolset or participate in the OpenAPS project. Individuals within the project who share their data do so at will and you should do the same only if you feel comfortable. That being said, it is always a good idea to record your data before embarking on a new set of experiments. This will be helpful to understand the effects of the system as well as gain a better understanding of your response to different control strategies.

## CGM Data

Before getting started, we ask that you store at least 30 days of CGM data. For now, the easiest way to do that is to upload your Dexcom receiver to Dexcom Studio or, if you use a Medtronic CGM, upload your CGM data to CareLink. We suggest you get in the habit of doing this regularly so that you have ongoing data to show trends in your overall estimated average glucose (eAG, a good indicator in trends in A1c) and variations in your "time in range."

## Recent A1c

Go ahead and document your most recent A1c and keep it somewhere handy. This will allow you to compare your before/after results as well as be able to share it (if you choose) once there is a request from OpenAPS researchers, who may aggregate anonymous data to show what happens when people use OpenAPS.

## Get comfortable making a PR

You should be comfortable making a PR to this documentation. If you haven't
ever done this, take a look at
[my first pull request guide](../../Resources/my-first-pr.md)
and try it out.

Commit message:

add sentence for uploading Vibe data.

docs/docs/walkthrough/phase-0/baseline-data.md, after:

# Baseline data

There is no requirement to share your data to use the openaps toolset or participate in the OpenAPS project. Individuals within the project who share their data do so at will and you should do the same only if you feel comfortable. That being said, it is always a good idea to record your data before embarking on a new set of experiments. This will be helpful to understand the effects of the system as well as gain a better understanding of your response to different control strategies.

## CGM Data

Before getting started, we ask that you store at least 30 days of CGM data. For now, the easiest way to do that is to upload your Dexcom receiver to Dexcom Studio or, if you use a Medtronic CGM, upload your CGM data to CareLink.  If you use an Animas Vibe, upload your data to Tidepool or Diasend.  We suggest you get in the habit of doing this regularly so that you have ongoing data to show trends in your overall estimated average glucose (eAG, a good indicator in trends in A1c) and variations in your "time in range."

## Recent A1c

Go ahead and document your most recent A1c and keep it somewhere handy. This will allow you to compare your before/after results as well as be able to share it (if you choose) once there is a request from OpenAPS researchers, who may aggregate anonymous data to show what happens when people use OpenAPS.

## Get comfortable making a PR

You should be comfortable making a PR to this documentation. If you haven't
ever done this, take a look at
[my first pull request guide](../../Resources/my-first-pr.md)
and try it out.
