docs/docs/walkthrough/phase-1/openaps-to-nightscout.md, before:

To get your OpenAPS viewed onto your Nightscout site, start by using the following tool:(It would be a good idea to be disconnected from your pump and do a Bolus Wizard so you can check the status of your Nightscout uploading.)
$nightscout autoconfigure-device-crud
To view your data on your Nightscout site, start by doing the following:

`nightscout autoconfigure-device-crud <https://yourname.com yourplainapisecret>`

So this would be your actual https://myname.azurewebsites.net  or https://myname.herokuapp.com (without the carrots of course). Your API_SECRET is listed in your Azure or Heroku settings.

To test this: `openaps use ns shell preflight`

To get aliases:

`curl -sg https://gist.githubusercontent.com/bewest/d3db9ca1c144b845382c885138a8f66e/raw/181c5d6f29cd6489ecc9630786cf2c4937ddde79/bewest-aliases.json > bewest-aliases.json`

`nano bewest-aliases.json` and make sure that the script references the report names that you created.  If not, change the report names to the names that you set up.

`cat bewest-aliases.json | openaps import`

To pull data:  `openaps gather-clean-data`

To set up Nightscout reports:

`curl -sg https://gist.githubusercontent.com/bewest/d3db9ca1c144b845382c885138a8f66e/raw/522155bae116983499bb1de30f10f52eb3c4b6b7/ns-reports.json > ns-reports.json`

`nano ns-reports.json` and make sure that the script references the report names that you created.  If not, change the report names to the names that you set up.

`cat ns-reports.json | openaps import`

To see your progress: `openaps do-everything`

To add the Maximum Insulin On Board to be 2 units:
`oref0-mint-max-iob 2 max-iob.json`

Then again, to check your progress:  `openaps do-everything`
At this point, you should see treatment circles, information about the battery, etc.

To verify what was uploaded to Nightscout:
`cat nightscout/uploaded.json`

Then for the status:
`oref0 device-helper ns-status 'ns-status $*' | openaps import`

Then:
`openaps use ns-status shell monitor/clock.json oref0-monitor/iob.json oref0-predict/oref0.json oref0-enacted/enacted-temp-basal.json monitor/battery.json monitor/reservoir.json monitor/status.json`

You should see a lot of info. (Side note: the word "received" is spelled wrong.)

Make sure to save this as a report:
`openaps report add nightscout/openaps-status.json JSON ns-status shell monitor/clock.json oref0-monitor/iob.json oref0-predict/oref0.json oref0-enacted/enacted-temp-basal.json monitor/battery.json monitor/reservoir.json monitor/status.json`

Now it needs to be invoked to test that it is getting data.
`openaps report invoke nightscout/openaps-status.json`

Test uploading it:
`openaps use ns shell upload devicestatus.json nightscout/openaps-status.json`

If it works, save it as a report:
`openaps report add nightscout/uploaded-recent-devicestatus.json JSON ns shell upload devicestatus.json nightscout/openaps-status.json added ns://JSON/shell/nightscout/uploaded-recent-devicestatus.json`

Now those aliases we did earlier need adjustment for all of the recent work we just did:
`openaps alias add report-nightscout "report invoke nightscout/preflight.json nightscout/recent-treatments.json nightscout/uploaded.json nightscout/recent-missing-entries.json nightscout/uploaded-entries.json nightscout/openaps-status.json nightscout/uploaded-recent-devicestatus.json"`

SUCCESS!!

To upload to Nightscout, use:  `openaps do-everything`
To just test uploading to Nightscout, use: ` $openaps report-nightscout`

Make sure to backup all the work you have just done:
`oref0 export-loop | tee backup-loop.json`

Commit message:

Nightscout comments (#304)
* added uplaod comments to openaps-to-nightscout

* typoed while editing the note about the typo

docs/docs/walkthrough/phase-1/openaps-to-nightscout.md, after:

To get your OpenAPS viewed onto your Nightscout site, start by using the following tool:(It would be a good idea to be disconnected from your pump and do a Bolus Wizard so you can check the status of your Nightscout uploading.)
$nightscout autoconfigure-device-crud
To view your data on your Nightscout site, start by doing the following:

`nightscout autoconfigure-device-crud <https://yourname.com yourplainapisecret>`

So this would be your actual https://myname.azurewebsites.net  or https://myname.herokuapp.com (without the carrots of course). Your API_SECRET is listed in your Azure or Heroku settings.

To test this: `openaps use ns shell preflight`\
It should return "True"

To get a good list of aliases:

`curl -sg https://gist.githubusercontent.com/bewest/d3db9ca1c144b845382c885138a8f66e/raw/181c5d6f29cd6489ecc9630786cf2c4937ddde79/bewest-aliases.json > bewest-aliases.json`

`nano bewest-aliases.json` and make sure that the script references the report names that you created.  If not, change the report names to the names that you set up.

`cat bewest-aliases.json | openaps import`

To pull data:  `openaps gather-clean-data`

To set up Nightscout reports:

`curl -sg https://gist.githubusercontent.com/bewest/d3db9ca1c144b845382c885138a8f66e/raw/522155bae116983499bb1de30f10f52eb3c4b6b7/ns-reports.json > ns-reports.json`

`nano ns-reports.json` and make sure that the script references the report names that you created.  If not, change the report names to the names that you set up.

`cat ns-reports.json | openaps import`

To see your progress: `openaps do-everything`

To add the Maximum Insulin On Board to be 2 units:
`oref0-mint-max-iob 2 max-iob.json`

Then again, to check your progress:  `openaps do-everything`
At this point, you should see treatment circles, information about the battery, etc.

To verify what was uploaded to Nightscout:
`cat nightscout/uploaded.json`

Then to add the ns-status device to your openaps.ini:
`oref0 device-helper ns-status 'ns-status $*' | openaps import`

Then test the ns-status device (Adjust the report directories as needed):
`openaps use ns-status shell monitor/clock.json oref0-monitor/iob.json oref0-predict/oref0.json oref0-enacted/enacted-temp-basal.json monitor/battery.json monitor/reservoir.json monitor/status.json`

You should see a lot of info. (Side note: the word "received" under the "enacted" heading is typoed.)\

If you receive an error you have most likely not included all reports;\
running `openaps use ns-status shell -h` will show positional arguements.
These arguements are required; `clock iob suggested enacted battery reservoir status`
you can also supplement additional reports (i.e., remainder).

Make sure to save this as a report:
`openaps report add nightscout/openaps-status.json JSON ns-status shell monitor/clock.json oref0-monitor/iob.json oref0-predict/oref0.json oref0-enacted/enacted-temp-basal.json monitor/battery.json monitor/reservoir.json monitor/status.json`

Now it needs to be invoked to test that it is getting data.
`openaps report invoke nightscout/openaps-status.json`

Test uploading it:
`openaps use ns shell upload devicestatus.json nightscout/openaps-status.json`

If it works, save it as a report:
`openaps report add nightscout/uploaded-recent-devicestatus.json JSON ns shell upload devicestatus.json nightscout/openaps-status.json added ns://JSON/shell/nightscout/uploaded-recent-devicestatus.json`

Now those aliases we did earlier need adjustment for all of the recent work we just did:
`openaps alias add report-nightscout "report invoke nightscout/preflight.json nightscout/recent-treatments.json nightscout/uploaded.json nightscout/recent-missing-entries.json nightscout/uploaded-entries.json nightscout/openaps-status.json nightscout/uploaded-recent-devicestatus.json"`

SUCCESS!!

To upload to Nightscout, use:  `openaps do-everything`
To just test uploading to Nightscout, use: ` $openaps report-nightscout`

Make sure to backup all the work you have just done:
`oref0 export-loop | tee backup-loop.json`
