docs/docs/walkthrough/phase-2/update-your-rig.md, before:

# How to update your OpenAPS rig in the future

You've probably heard about all kinds of cool new features that you want to try. If they're part of the master branch already, you just need to go enable them (usually by [re-running the oref0-setup script](oref0-setup.md#re-running-the-setup-script)). 

However, if it's a brand-new feature that's being tested or is recently added to master, you'll need to install the new version of `oref0` first.

## Step 1: Install the new version

#### Recommended: To get the new stuff from the newest released master version of oref0

1. `sudo npm install -g oref0`

#### Optional: To get on "dev" branch to test even more recently added new stuff

Or, if the feature you want hasn't been released yet, and you want to test the latest untested development version of `oref0`, run:

1. `cd ~/src/oref0 && git checkout dev && git pull`
2. `npm run global-install`

## Step 2: Re-run oref0-setup

Now that you've updated your `oref0` version, you can [re-run the oref0-setup script](oref0-setup.md#re-running-the-setup-script) to use it.

Commit message:

Clarify must run once original before run-again gets created

docs/docs/walkthrough/phase-2/update-your-rig.md, after:

# How to update your OpenAPS rig in the future

You've probably heard about all kinds of cool new features that you want to try. If they're part of the master branch already, you just need to go enable them (usually by [re-running the oref0-setup script](oref0-setup.md#re-running-the-setup-script)). 

However, if it's a brand-new feature that's being tested or is recently added to master, you'll need to install the new version of `oref0` first.

## Step 1: Install the new version

#### Recommended: To get the new stuff from the newest released master version of oref0

1. `sudo npm install -g oref0`

#### Optional: To get on "dev" branch to test even more recently added new stuff

Or, if the feature you want hasn't been released yet, and you want to test the latest untested development version of `oref0`, run:

1. `cd ~/src/oref0 && git checkout dev && git pull`
2. `npm run global-install`

## Step 2: Re-run oref0-setup

Now that you've updated your `oref0` version, you can [re-run the oref0-setup script](oref0-setup.md#re-running-the-setup-script) to use it. If this file doesn't exist, you'll need to [re-run the oref0-setup script per the original setup instructions](http://openaps.readthedocs.io/en/latest/docs/walkthrough/phase-2/oref0-setup.html#step-2-run-oref0-setup) - then in future you can do the run-again.
