docs/index.rst, before:

Welcome to OpenAPS's documentation!
==============================================

This documentation support a self-driven Do-It-Yourself (DIY) implementation of an artificial pancreas based on the OpenAPS reference design. By proceeding to use these tools or any piece within, you agree to the copyright (see LICENSE.txt for more information; and the full README here: https://github.com/openaps/docs/blob/master/README.md ) and release any contributors from liability, and assume full responsibility for all of your actions and outcomes related to usage of these tools or ideas.

*A Note on DIY and the "Open" Part of OpenAPS*

This is a set of development tools to support a self-driven DIY implementation. Any person choosing to use these tools is solely responsible for testing and implementing these tools independently or together as a system.

The DIY part of OpenAPS is important. While formal training or experience as an engineer or a developer is not a prerequisite, a growth mindset is required to learn to work with the "building blocks" that will help you develop your OpenAPS instance. Remember as you consider this project that this is not a "set and forget" system; an OpenAPS implementation requires diligent and consistent testing and monitoring to ensure each piece of the system is monitoring, predicting, and controlling as desired. The performance and quality of your system lies solely with you.

This community of contributors believes in "paying it forward," and individuals who are implementing these tools are asked to contribute by asking questions, helping improve documentation, and contributing in other ways.



.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :glob:

   docs/introduction/index
   docs/walkthrough/index
   

   Resources <docs/Resources/index>
   reference/index





Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Add Gitter to index.rst

docs/index.rst, after:

Welcome to OpenAPS's documentation!
==============================================

This documentation support a self-driven Do-It-Yourself (DIY) implementation of an artificial pancreas based on the OpenAPS reference design. By proceeding to use these tools or any piece within, you agree to the copyright (see LICENSE.txt for more information; and the full README here: https://github.com/openaps/docs/blob/master/README.md ) and release any contributors from liability, and assume full responsibility for all of your actions and outcomes related to usage of these tools or ideas.

*A Note on DIY and the "Open" Part of OpenAPS*

This is a set of development tools to support a self-driven DIY implementation. Any person choosing to use these tools is solely responsible for testing and implementing these tools independently or together as a system.

The DIY part of OpenAPS is important. While formal training or experience as an engineer or a developer is not a prerequisite, a growth mindset is required to learn to work with the "building blocks" that will help you develop your OpenAPS instance. Remember as you consider this project that this is not a "set and forget" system; an OpenAPS implementation requires diligent and consistent testing and monitoring to ensure each piece of the system is monitoring, predicting, and controlling as desired. The performance and quality of your system lies solely with you.

This community of contributors believes in "paying it forward," and individuals who are implementing these tools are asked to contribute by asking questions, helping improve documentation, and contributing in other ways. Have questions? Hop into [Gitter](https://gitter.im/nightscout/intend-to-bolus) and ask anytime!



.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :glob:

   docs/introduction/index
   docs/walkthrough/index
   

   Resources <docs/Resources/index>
   reference/index





Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
