docs/Resources/resources.md, before:

# Resources

## Raspberry Pi
[Raspberry Pi Documentation](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/)

[Pi Filler, Pi Finder, and Pi Copier](http://ivanx.com/raspberrypi/)

## Git and GitHub

[Official Git Documentation](https://git-scm.com/doc)

[Atlassian (BitBucket) Git Tutorials](https://www.atlassian.com/git/)

[Code School Interactive Git Introduction](https://try.github.io/)

## Linux Shell / Terminal

[Learn UNIX in 10 Minutes](http://freeengineer.org/learnUNIXin10minutes.html)

[Codecademy Command Line Course](https://www.codecademy.com/en/courses/learn-the-command-line)

## Python

[Official Python Documentation](https://docs.python.org/2/)

[Learn Python the Hard Way](http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/index.html)

[Automate the Boring Stuff with Python](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/)

[Codecademy Python Course](https://www.codecademy.com/tracks/python)

[Python 2.7 Quick Reference](http://rgruet.free.fr/PQR27/PQR2.7.html)

[NumPy for MATLAB Users](http://mathesaurus.sourceforge.net/matlab-numpy.html)

## Markdown & GitBook
[Daring Fireball (John Gruber) Markdown Introduction](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)

[Macdown](http://macdown.uranusjr.com/): Open-source Markdown editor for OS X

[StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/): Online Markdown editor

[GitBook editor](https://www.gitbook.com/)

[GitBook Help](http://help.gitbook.com/)

## People

These people have publicly identified as either supporting or running OpenAPS implementations and are sharing their experiences publicly. See below links. 

<b>Dana Lewis</b> - blogs about personal experience at [DIYPS.org](http://DIYPS.org) and shares on Twitter as [@DanaMLewis](http://twitter.com/danamlewis). 

<b>Scott Leibrand</b> - contributes to Dana's instance of OpenAPS, and is on Twitter as [@ScottLeibrand](http://twitter.com/scottleibrand). (Scott and Dana collectively maintain [OpenAPS.org](http://openaps.org).)

<b>Ali Mazaheri</b> - shares on Twitter as [@AliMazaheri](http://twitter.com/alimazaheri)

<b>Chris Hannemann</b> - shares on Twitter as [@hannemannemann](http://twitter.com/hannemannemann)

<b>Nate Racklyeft</b> - shares on Twitter as [@LoudNate](http://twitter.com/loudnate)

<b>Ben West</b> - author of decoding-carelink and much of the openaps toolkit - on Twitter as [@bewestisdoing](http://twitter.com/bewestisdoing)

Commit message:

list of useful apps
list of a few useful apps for working with the loop using a smartphone

docs/Resources/resources.md, after:

# Resources

## Raspberry Pi
[Raspberry Pi Documentation](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/)

[Pi Filler, Pi Finder, and Pi Copier](http://ivanx.com/raspberrypi/)

## Git and GitHub

[Official Git Documentation](https://git-scm.com/doc)

[Atlassian (BitBucket) Git Tutorials](https://www.atlassian.com/git/)

[Code School Interactive Git Introduction](https://try.github.io/)

## Linux Shell / Terminal

[Learn UNIX in 10 Minutes](http://freeengineer.org/learnUNIXin10minutes.html)

[Codecademy Command Line Course](https://www.codecademy.com/en/courses/learn-the-command-line)

## Python

[Official Python Documentation](https://docs.python.org/2/)

[Learn Python the Hard Way](http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/index.html)

[Automate the Boring Stuff with Python](https://automatetheboringstuff.com/)

[Codecademy Python Course](https://www.codecademy.com/tracks/python)

[Python 2.7 Quick Reference](http://rgruet.free.fr/PQR27/PQR2.7.html)

[NumPy for MATLAB Users](http://mathesaurus.sourceforge.net/matlab-numpy.html)

## Useful Apps

[Fing](http://www.overlooksoft.com/download) (Android and Apple): Identify IP address of devices on a network. Useful for finding the IP address of RPi on new networks.

[Hotspot Manager](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.etustudio.android.hotspotmanager&hl=en) (Android):  Itentify IP address of devices on a hotspot. Useful for finding the IP address of RPi on hotspots. 

[JuiceSSH](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.sonelli.juicessh&hl=en) (Android): SSH client for Android devices

## Markdown & GitBook
[Daring Fireball (John Gruber) Markdown Introduction](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)

[Macdown](http://macdown.uranusjr.com/): Open-source Markdown editor for OS X

[StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/): Online Markdown editor

[GitBook editor](https://www.gitbook.com/)

[GitBook Help](http://help.gitbook.com/)

## People

These people have publicly identified as either supporting or running OpenAPS implementations and are sharing their experiences publicly. See below links. 

<b>Dana Lewis</b> - blogs about personal experience at [DIYPS.org](http://DIYPS.org) and shares on Twitter as [@DanaMLewis](http://twitter.com/danamlewis). 

<b>Scott Leibrand</b> - contributes to Dana's instance of OpenAPS, and is on Twitter as [@ScottLeibrand](http://twitter.com/scottleibrand). (Scott and Dana collectively maintain [OpenAPS.org](http://openaps.org).)

<b>Ali Mazaheri</b> - shares on Twitter as [@AliMazaheri](http://twitter.com/alimazaheri)

<b>Chris Hannemann</b> - shares on Twitter as [@hannemannemann](http://twitter.com/hannemannemann)

<b>Nate Racklyeft</b> - shares on Twitter as [@LoudNate](http://twitter.com/loudnate)

<b>Ben West</b> - author of decoding-carelink and much of the openaps toolkit - on Twitter as [@bewestisdoing](http://twitter.com/bewestisdoing)
